-----------------------------*Online Chat*----------------------------

Andrew logged in to online chat.

Andrew: Hello

Poke-E-Man: Hi.  How are you doing?

Andrew: Good, well, sort of.  I run into a problem when writing a
computer program.

Poke-E-Man: What is it?

Andrew: Well, I am writing a text editor module that is meant to have
all the features plus more that the Windows basic text editor module
has, but my word rewrapping algorithm doesn't quite work.  The reason
why is because I want to take a shortcut for rewrapping when a new
line character is detected in the input stream, but that shortcut also
adds a bug unless I add a lot more code.  I am not sure if I should
take the shortcut or not.

Poke-E-Man: Well, sounds good, but I do not have very much background
information in that subject.

Andrew: Oh, well the problem is that I am affraid of making the code
more complex over a bug that I could only identify the cause with a
source level debugger.

Poke-E-Man: Source level debuggers are used all the time in modern
computer program development.  I don't think you should feel that bad
over having to use it to identify the bug.

Andrew: The point is that I would not know which parts of the source
code caused the bug unless I used the debugger.  That makes it seem
like I am dependent on the debugger to write the code, and I am not
sure if Microsoft had to debug their code for the text editor module
like that.

Poke-E-Man: So you are concerned about making the code overly complex?

Andrew: Yes, that is it.

Poke-E-Man: What target computers are you planning on making this
program for?

Andrew: I am planning on being able to backport my program to Windows
95 in regard to the Windows operating system.  I am also probably
going to port my program to DOS and to GNU/Linux.  I might port my
code to compact Mac class Macintoshes and the Apple II, but that is
not the priority right now.

Poke-E-Man: Windows 95 was in the transition to drastically faster
processors.  I would expect Windows 95 computers to be running no
earlier than a 486, but I do not have full experience with Windows.
I'm a GNU power user, and I hardly ever touch proprietary operating
systems.

Andrew: Lucky you, I have to work with existing hardware.  I have
concerns about converting the operating system from Windows to
GNU/Linux, mostly vintage concerns but partially technical concerns.
Anyways, I have to work with what I was already given, so this is why
I have to go through extra work to redo work that was already done.

Poke-E-Man: Sounds sad, but I guess the fact is that around that time,
the free software movement had not quite risen to its high point of
today.

Andrew: Yep.  It also seems that even today, knowledge of free
software, free as in freedom, has a very scarce prevalence.  I think
it is because free software development does not nearly require as
much big money making techniques as proprietary software development,
not to mention that full time free software developers run off of
lower budgets than there proprietary counterdevelopers.  Well, I guess
thats as much help as I could get, so I'm going to leave now.

Poke-E-Man: Good bye.

Andrew logged out of online chat.

Connection closed.
--------------------*Thanks for using online chat!*-------------------
