Rules for more natural parser format
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Even though there are many wide spread hypertext formats out there and
other text-based configuration formats, those were designed for
specific purposes that are not quite consistent with the purposes I
need.  Therefore, it is a good idea to use a simple and more natural
format for my data storage.

The other parser syntaxes are good, its just that they are oriented
toward storing program variables in files.  In my case, the data is
not program variables, but it is meant to be more like what you would
type in a plain text file if you did not have a specialized program to
help you.

Here are the rules:

* Generally, tabs can substitute spaces but newlines cannot substitute
  spaces.

* The data is stored in a plain text file with a '.txt' extension.

* At the beginning of the file, there may be some header information.

* Entries are denoted by having a blank line before them, the text of
  the entry, a line of dashes 70 columns wide, and then a blank line
  following.  There must be no trailing spaces in this construct.

* Attributes are specified by having the name on a separate line with
  no leading spaces, a colon following with no spaces between the
  colon and last non-whitespace character, a single space after the
  colon, and then the value following.

* Attributes can be single line, multiline, or verbatim.

* Single line attributes cannot have trailing whitespace.

* Multiline attributes must have a leading space on each line they are
  broken across and should not have trailing spaces.  Multiline
  attributes have whitespace varriance unified on reading.

* Verbatim attributes must have a blank line before the attribute
  name, the attribute name must be on a line of its own and there
  should be no whitespace after the colon, and then all information up
  to the next attribute name with a blank line before it or to the end
  of the entry is part of the verbatim entry.

* Attributes can also be grouped with subheaders.  A subheader has a
  blank line before it, an asterisk as the first character on the
  line, a space after that, the heading name, a space following that,
  and an asterisk at the end of the line.  There should not be any
  trailing spaces following this.

Now you may look at the organizer sample file for an example.
